---
title: July 8, 2020, Resources for implementing accessibility and usability testing in libraries
description: The UW Libraries is committed to providing equitable access to digital library resources. With the help of UW-IT’s Assistive Technology Services a small group of library staff created materials to facilitate workshops to train Libraries staff on how to evaluate and test online resources and applications to ensure they are accessible to patrons with disabilities. This presentation will briefly cover the process UW Libraries went through in creating our materials for audit basics, issue logging, and report writing. I will also discuss the value of sharing testing results for our patrons, other institutions, and vendors. The User Testing Toolkit was created by the User Testing Toolkit Project Group (UTTPG) under the Orbis Cascade Alliance Discovery & User Experience (DUX) Team in 2018 to support member interest in performing user testing.  In this presentation I will show some of the aspects of the toolkit I find to be the most useful, including the FAQ which points to resources and how-tos, sample documents, and a testing overview. I also encourage the audience to reach out if there are resources they want to recommend or sample documents they can contribute to build the toolkit further. The newly formed DUX Accessibility Group is currently building an accessibility toolkit and I will give a very brief update on its progress.  
date: 2021-04-27T10:44:35.116Z
---

[Transcripts of the webinar](https://nwheat.org/documents/07082020_Transcript.pdf)

[Recordings of the webinar](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xFOfTDxC8gPkGFTd6BZvnbG8x4Wr2aUp/view?usp=sharing)

Andy Andrews, UW Libraries Accessibility Coordinator 
Hilary Robbeloth, University of Puget Sound System & Discovery Librarian

## Presentation title 
[Accessibility Testing: Training for Libraries Staff](https://nwheat.org/documents/Accessibility%20Testing%20Training%20for%20Libraries%20Staff.pdf)

Andy Andrews, UW Libraries Accessibility Coordinator
## Description
The UW Libraries is committed to providing equitable access to digital library resources. With the help of UW-IT’s Assistive Technology Services a small group of library staff created materials to facilitate workshops to train Libraries staff on how to evaluate and test online resources and applications to ensure they are accessible to patrons with disabilities. This presentation will briefly cover the process UW Libraries went through in creating our materials for audit basics, issue logging, and report writing. I will also discuss the value of sharing testing results for our patrons, other institutions, and vendors. 
## Biography
Andy Andrews is the Accessibility Coordinator for the University of Washington Libraries. Since joining the Libraries in 2018, he has championed accessibility throughout the Libraries by empowering staff every day to improve the accessibility of their own work and services. He co-chairs the Accessibility Working group at the UW Libraries as well as a member of the DUX Accessibility Standing Group. 

## Presentation title
[Alliance User Testing Toolkit](https://nwheat.org/documents/Alliance%20User%20Testing%20Toolkit.pdf)  
Hilary Robbeloth, University of Puget Sound, Systems & Discovery Librarian

## Description
The User Testing Toolkit was created by the User Testing Toolkit Project Group (UTTPG) under the Orbis Cascade Alliance Discovery & User Experience (DUX) Team in 2018 to support member interest in performing user testing.  In this presentation I will show some of the aspects of the toolkit I find to be the most useful, including the FAQ which points to resources and how-tos, sample documents, and a testing overview. I also encourage the audience to reach out if there are resources they want to recommend or sample documents they can contribute to build the toolkit further. The newly formed DUX Accessibility Group is currently building an accessibility toolkit and I will give a very brief update on its progress.  
## Biography:
Hilary Robbeloth is the Systems & Discovery Librarian for Collins Memorial Library at the University of Puget Sound in Tacoma, WA. In this role she provides leadership to support digital and technology services to enable research, teaching, and learning programs in the library. She is also the collection development liaison for Asian language materials. She is chair of the Collins Library Shared Integrated Library System Team and of the Alliance DUX Team. 
